[CANDIDATE_NAME] 
[PHONE] | [EMAIL] | Toronto, ON, Canada 

PROFESSIONAL STATEMENT 

Formally trained engineer with extensive experience in designing and implementing high-throughput screening 
assays and laboratory automation systems using confocal microscopes, image analysis tools, and scripts (Python, 
ImageJ, MATLAB).  Proven ability to independently manage complex projects in various fields from concept to 
validation, with strong proficiency in cell assays, microscopy, and material characterization. Motivated self-starter 
evidenced by enrollment into data science courses and creation of tools/scripts to streamline processes or tasks. 

EDUCATION 

Ph.D Chemical Engineering Candidate, Shoichet Lab, University of Toronto 
GPA:4.0/4.0 
Relevant Coursework: 
UofT DSI Data Science Certificate –Database structure and querying using SQLite, version tracking using [CANDIDATE_NAME] 
CHE1148H Process Data Analytics – Python and [CANDIDATE_NAME] notebooks, Data handling and analysis using Pandas, 

       Sept 2020 – Present 

machine learning algorithms 

B.ASc Nanotechnology Engineering, University of Waterloo  
GPA:3.8/4.0 

  Sept 2013 – May 2018 

WORK EXPERIENCE 

Graduate Researcher 
The Shoichet Lab (PI: Dr. [CANDIDATE_NAME])  

July 2020 – Present 

•  Develop and modify polymeric systems for the investigation of liver and lung disease models using disease 

and healthy patient cells. 

•  Create automated imaging and analysis processes for high throughput imaging systems (Opera Phenix) and 

confocal microscopy systems for the laboratory.  

•  Utilize Excel, Python, MATLAB, and ImageJ to clean, analyze, and visualize large amounts of quantitative and 

qualitative data. Automated processes for time savings of 10 fold at minimum. 

•  Conduct literature review and keep up to date with literature to identify gaps and trends in fields. 

Fellow 
Biomineralization and Biomimetics Lab (PI: Dr. [CANDIDATE_NAME])  
Harvard University & Massachusetts Eye and Ear 

Oct 2018 – Oct 2019 

•  Developed  microbial  and  cellular  adhesion  assays  on  omniphobic  materials  for  tympanostomy  tubes 

• 

showing a reduction of up to 99% of bacterial attachment. 
Interfaced  with  the  animal  study  and  development  team  to  provide  analysis,  feedback,  and  potential   
improvements for in vivo studies. 

Hardware Engineering Intern 
Verily (formerly Google Life Sciences) 

May 2017 – Aug 2017 

•  Spearheaded  the  formulation  and  characterization  of  a  novel  polymer  platform  for  implantable  devices 

resulting in 7 different formulations. 
Initiated biocompatibility tests in compliance with ISO 10993. 
Interfaced with various teams to develop new in-house procedures and testing protocols.  

• 
• 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Research Assistant 
Biomechanics and Cell Mechanics Laboratory (PI: Dr. [CANDIDATE_NAME]) 
Soochow University 

Sep 2015 – Apr 2016 

•  Developed, synthesized, and conducted experiments on novel polymers for tissue engineering applications. 
•  Designed, prototyped, and tested multiple versions of knee braces for genu [CANDIDATE_NAME] (knock- knee) treatment 

using CAD and 3D printing.  

•  Wrote technical documents on completed work resulting in three published papers. 

Research Assistant 
Micro Engineering Dynamics and Automation Lab (PI: Dr. [CANDIDATE_NAME]) 
University of Calgary 

Jan 2015 – Apr 2015 

•  Revised and extensively tested a novel aluminum-air battery. Led to a 24-fold increase in performance. 
•  Assembled enclosures and holders for battery testing using CAD, 3D printing, and machining. 
•  Designed and built a small-scale roller system and environmental controllers using Arduino.  
•  Completed work set the foundation for one publication. 

INVOLVEMENT 

Co-chair and Advisor 
Toronto Biomedical Engineering Conference 

September 2022-Present 

•  Oversee conference planning duties such as inviting speakers, developing workshops, managing a team 
of 11 people, as well as booking venues and catering for the event. Increased attendance by 66.8% from 
2022-2023 

Business Lead and Technical Advisor 
University of Waterloo Nanorobotics Group (UW_NRG) 

2013 – 2018 

•  Designed, tested, and debugged multiple microrobot setups as well as their control systems. 
•  Constructed stages for the microrobots using machining and 3D printing. 
•  Wrote and presented proposals to potential sponsors. Secured over $20,000 in funds for UW_NRG. 
•  Competed in the annual Mobile Microrobotics Challenge at the International Conference on Robotics and 
Automation. Two 1st place finishes (2013, 2016), one 2nd place finish (2015), one 3rd place finish (2014). 

SIDEPROJECT 

Japan Top Restaurants Map and Spreadsheet – Utilized Python to scrape over 5000 restaurant entries from a 
Japanese food review website for the top restaurants in multiple cities. Organized, filtered, and displayed the 
restaurants on Google Sheets for offline access/planning as well as Google maps for quick navigation. The tool was 
released publicly on Reddit and garnered over 48,000 views and 1,700 shares within a day. 
https://github.com/cwfling/Top-Japanese-Restaurants-Tabelog 

SKILLS 

Programming: Python, MATLAB, ImageJ, SQL , Java 
Software: Microsoft Office, GraphPad, Google Suite (Docs, Sheets, Slides), Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator, 
Solidworks 
Languages: English, Chinese (Hakka dialect) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

